good evening
thank you all for coming this afternoon
to visit with pennsylvania county
schools and what we have to offer
this evening you're going to hear from
school division representatives as well
as representatives from the institute
for advanced learning and research
about an opportunity available for
students this summer
last year the board of supervisors
approved a funding for summer internship
program we learned of it a little late
this year they've come back again and
approved
the same type of program for this summer
for
approximately 30 students
and so this evening we have
here
from the institute mrs dana wilson she
is the work-based learning program
coordinator from the institute for
advanced learning and research and she's
to my right here
we also have
mr kenyon scott in the back he's our
assistant superintendent for operations
and mrs emily reynolds in the back there
as well as i.t staff and that they're
keeping us up and going uh this this
afternoon as well as we're also
broadcasting this live and we also will
save it
so you can access this later
beside me to my left is mrs elizabeth
craig and she's our director of
secondary education and then to my far
right is mrs angela regnie she is our
director of career and technical
education and then mrs kendall carter
she's the administrative assistant for
career and technical education she's to
my far right there
we're going to provide a powerpoint to
this this evening we have some students
who participated last summer
to share their experience
as well as be available to answer any
questions that you may have
but i'd like to kind of share with you a
little bit of history of our division
real quickly i won't belabor it but i
will let you know that this is part of
what we've been attempting to do
division wide
to develop a strong workforce
in this area
of students who will leave our high
schools
and enter the workforce but also
students who will go off to college and
university go to the military
but will come back to us later
so that's the efforts that we are
putting into place here
and it begins in our middle schools
right now we have established career
connections labs in our middle schools
where our middle school students have
access
to career opportunities from
engineering to precision machining to
nursing to
optometry you know whatever they wish
aspire to be
they can seek that out
during this time in middle school and
learn about that so that when they enter
high school they're preparing
for what's next for them when they leave
leave the high schools
this year
our
stem academy will become
will operate a little bit differently
this upcoming year where our ninth and
tenth grade students
will go there
those who opt to go there choose to go
there
and applying are selected and they'll
take by biology courses they'll take
environmental science courses also
they'll take they can take career
connections advanced career connections
and they can take health sciences
courses and preparing them for pathways
that they that they're interested in and
then as always you guys who are who are
probably our
sophomores juniors and seniors have the
opportunity to attend our career and
technical center as eleventh twelfth
graders of our governor's school or our
academy for engineering technology you
know all in pathways that you choose
kind of select just select a different
opportunity for you
that that are available to students in
our schools and as always students can
opt to stay at their base high schools i
have two children who are much older
than you guys but one opted to go to
governor school and one opted to stay at
the base high school both receive
probably the same number of advanced
courses it's just in what what children
aspire to do
this evening
we also would like to recognize our
board of supervisors again
they have provided the funding for this
opportunity
and they along with our school board
understand
uh the importance of developing a work
ethic
and a skill set in our young people you
know if we're going to be a prosperous
community and lure those
lucrative companies back to pennsylvania
or to pennsylvania county you know it
really starts with this next generation
and so that's this is part of that
part of that
the opportunities that we provide our
children earn some money but they also
learn a lot and and we heard from
businesses last year
the success stories
of what took place last night and how
pleased they were with the students that
they had selected last summer so at this
time i think next on the agenda is mrs
angela rigney
thank you dr jones good evening everyone
thank you all for coming out it's nice
to see so many young faces and and
parents in here this evening supporting
and certainly everyone who's at home
joining us as well and it's also nice to
see our former interns that are here
with us and certainly they'll be able to
answer some questions and share and
certainly if they're interested in going
through an internship again i know they
had some very
good experiences through this process
and that's what it's about i will also
add
to thank all of our partners in this it
is certainly a huge partnership among
the institute for advanced learning and
research our board of supervisors
our school system as well as our
community business and industry partners
a couple of things regarding last year's
success just to let you know a little
bit about what happened with our
internships last year and again we
pulled this off pretty quickly so we
were pretty excited about the the
success that we had to turn this around
in a short amount of time
we did provide 15 summer internships for
students
in a month's time so we were excited
about that we collaborated with six
pennsylvania county offices so they got
to see a lot of the different government
office offices in pennsylvania county
and have those experiences we had one
private sector business and then two
pennsylvania county school departments
to create these opportunities so our
goal and what you'll see this evening
some of the partnerships that we've
expanded out to to make it a little bit
better this year and to give more
opportunities to students
students were able to earn a two
thousand eight hundred dollar stipend
over the course of the internship that
was paid directly to the students that
participated
in addition it created a platform for
young people to positively expand their
professional and personal networks and i
know many of these students again built
that platform of collaboration and
opportunity for future success and
networking amongst their internships and
meeting other individuals going out in
the field they had a lot of good field
experience in going out and doing some
economic development announcements as
well as some other components
with regards to the 22 internship and
our enhancements with what we're doing
this year
our goal again is to expand beyond
the summer to provide comprehensive work
based learning opportunities so as you
will hear over the coming months years
work-based learning has really expanded
and the opportunities will continue to
expand based on requirements and
opportunities that we work with the
department of education on but also
needs that we hear from business and
industry partners across the region and
how we can prepare our young people to
be prepared for
work and be prepared for careers in
these industries and what better way to
get in and have these internships
apprenticeships clinical rotations and
other opportunities for job shadowing
and mentoring to see what these careers
are about
this year we are increasing the number
of participants from 15 to 30 so we will
have 30 slots to fill this year so we
excited about that
student stipends have increased to a
minimum wage of 11 an hour
we also create and implement more
intentional processes to improve the
student preparedness so you'll hear a
little bit more about some of the things
that we've put in place and that
students will go through to prepare them
for their internship placements
and then we also have a wider variety of
internship experiences to support
business and industry because again this
is an opportunity for us to provide them
the work the support that they need to
build their platforms
we've also shortened the link of the
work readiness boot camp and that will
be hosted at the stem academy and this
will prepare students who've not had an
opportunity to be out in the work
work field and getting you prepared and
knowing what you need to do prior to
going into these internship experiences
at this time i'm going to turn it over
to miss wilson
thank you angela and thank you everyone
my name is dana wilson i serve as
work-based learning program coordinator
through the institute for advanced
learning and research i'm the one that's
been meeting with these businesses and
talking to them about these great
opportunities and what they can provide
at their place of business
it's been very exciting and i'm so
thrilled that we were able to double our
internship placements this year that
just means more opportunity for our
youth
so i want to talk to you about the
application process
there are two pieces there's two parts
to the application the first piece is a
url it is a bitly link pcs internship
you can see it up on our slides here
that is a
screening tool that we use through the
school just to make sure that the
students that we're providing to this
program have been double checked by the
school system in your attendance records
that link is available on every when you
go into major clarity it's on every job
posting so you see where these arrows
are on this slide
i'll show you what it looks like in
major clarity but i just wanted to point
out that the link is on every job
posting you only need to complete that
link one time but it's on every job
posting so it's available for you
when you go into major clarity and you
start reading through the various
opportunities you're going to apply with
your resume and cover letter you're
going to complete that link and then
you're going to apply with your resume
and cover letter to the job that you're
interested in
make sure you apply to the application
link and to the job posting by april 5th
we will do our screening through the
pennsylvania county school system on the
back end so you'll receive notification
april 22nd if you've been accepted into
the internship program
at that time at april 22nd if you
receive an email saying hey you've been
selected what we're going to do is take
your resume your cover letter and your
application and we will bring it to the
business that you've applied to and see
if they are interested in interviewing
you or the school system will interview
you it might be me and miss rigney or
it'll be
somebody from this from the business
itself
so a completed application includes
completing that link at least one time
applying with your resume and cover
letter to the positions that you're
interested in in major clarity apply for
as many positions as you'd like but make
sure that you read very carefully
what the positions are are asking you to
do at that place
so major clarity if you're not familiar
with major clarity or how to access it
if you're in grades 6 through 12 and you
are a pennsylvania county student then
you have access to this platform in this
platform there's a whole lot of
resources there are financial resources
for looking for scholarships there's
post-secondary research that you can do
to look at maybe colleges if you're
looking for what you're going to do
after school or you can look at our area
which is the work based learning section
so on the left hand side of your major
clarity platform that's your navigation
you'll click on work based learning
which is circled on the side
on the this
slide right now and then in the
opportunity search bar just type in the
letters p e w that stands for
pennsylvania experience works that'll
pull up all the opportunities that we
have available to you there are a lot of
opportunities already posted in major
clarity for other areas such as danville
such as henry county
what you're looking for is pew for
pennsylvania county experience works
we're still looking to complete our 30
placements so if there are businesses
that are listening or people here who
own businesses or know business people
any industry is okay we are looking for
at least 30 placements currently we do
have last year's participants from the
county and a couple additional
additional businesses so
pennsylvania county parks and rec the
public relations department information
technology community development
the pennsylvania pet center and the
commissioner of revenue have all agreed
to participate from the local government
perspective
from businesses so far the pennsylvania
county school i.t department will have
positions and the maintenance department
will have positions open and broadville
animal clinic has agreed to participate
and we're still in conversation with a
few other businesses including paths
which would allow us to have possible
nursing internships so it's a big win if
we can get them in on time
okay just to go over everything because
i covered a lot of information your
deadlines apply for the program by april
5th applying for the program includes
completing that link and applying with
your resume and cover letter to any of
the positions that you're interested in
the ones that are labeled p e w
if you've been accepted into the program
you'll be notified by april 22nd
businesses will begin interviewing at
the end of april and throughout may
we are hoping to have all placements
confirmed by may 13th so you can make
your summer plans
if you are nervous about interviewing
and maybe have never done that before
the institute for advanced learning has
partnered with pennsylvania county
schools to host a mock interview day
called aspire that will be on april 28th
from 9 am to 1 30. it is targeted to
seniors that are maybe don't have
plans after after high school but anyone
can participate in that especially if
you're participating in this internship
program it's really great experience for
you so get some practice doing
interviews that have really no stakes
attached to it and then you can go into
your actual business interviews and feel
very confident
you can register for that through your
school counselor
there are some details to this program
that go beyond the internship so when we
mentioned trying to expand it beyond the
summer the mock interview day is one if
you need some assistance with creating a
resume we can do resume workshops that
can you know help you get everything
together major clarity also has a resume
builder built into the platform so if
you're not sure how to put together a
resume you just fill out some fields and
you can download a formatted resume
right from major clarity
before the internship start which they
start on june 13th they go to august 5th
it's 32 hours per week we are attempting
to have all the schedules monday through
thursday 8 to 5 but there are certain
businesses that are not even open during
those times so make sure that when you
go into major clarity that you read
carefully because the schedules might be
different than eight to five
in addition to the work that the
students will be doing on site for those
32 hours we are hosting friday morning
debriefs we did this last year and we
got very positive results from the
students they mentioned that it was
great to get together with the other
members of the internship program hear
what everyone was doing in their various
places of business they were able to
talk about issues that maybe erodes that
they couldn't handle at the actual sites
and it helped us stay on top of you know
what things we needed to put in place to
make sure that these were equitable
programs
so that is on friday mornings
the work readiness boot camp will be
june 7th to the 9th this is prior to the
start of the overall internship program
this is where we bring in community
partners to talk about financial
literacy credit scores all sorts of
business related topics real world
related topics to help students get
prepared for i mean it's it's a it's a
cram three day but it's a lot of
information that's very helpful and also
helps students connect to community
partners where they can then continue
their network
the stipend this year is eleven dollars
an hour last year it was ten dollars an
hour so we bumped it up from twenty
eight hundred dollar stipend to three
thousand eighty dollars that is a
non-tax stipend it does not affect if
you are receiving any type of additional
aid from the state or from federal
government you do not receive an i-9
form for that it is a direct stipend for
the student without taxes
and it can be adjusted if needed up to
one week so we realize this is a summer
program and many of you have summer
you know plans already in place maybe
you're going on a cruise and i'm jealous
if that's the case we do have some some
leniency there we will adjust your
stipend if you need to take time off
we already have built in july 4th we
just we know everyone's not going to be
here for that so we built that in but if
there's additional time that needs to be
worked out you work that out with your
supervisor and then they let us know and
we adjust your stipend from there
thank you
thank you miss wilson again a lot of
great opportunities for these
internships
i encourage all of you students i
certainly hope that you've had the
opportunity to get into the major
clarity platform if that is something
you're not familiar with please make
sure you reach out to your school
counselor everything that we're doing
centered around work-based learning as
well as academic and career plans along
with scholarships and a lot of other
things that you're going to see coming
through our division is now being put
into this major clarity platform i know
just this week i've been sending miss
wilson quite a few emails for
scholarships so if students are
interested in scholarships those will be
in there it's really a one stop shop to
find anything that you need centered
around your career and your planning
goals there's a lot of interest
inventories like she said the resume
builder cover letter other resources
that will help you as you plan
college resources so you can certainly
research colleges that you may be
institute
interested in applying for or learning
more about
at this time if you have any questions
we will be open to answering any of
those but we do ask that you come to the
center to the podium
so that anyone at home can also hear the
questions you ask and we answer
any questions
you can come on up
hello
um i would just like to know do you have
any handouts on the material that you
are presenting tonight
excellent question
embarrassing response
no
however we can email this out to you and
we have flyers that we have digitally
just didn't have them printed for
tonight okay does that work
other questions
mrs reading who is their contact at
their high school who should they see if
they have questions at their high school
so if you have questions regarding the
internships
or anything dealing with major clarity
see one of your school counselors
if you have additional questions
regarding the internships ms carter will
be your contact for that
and her email address is anne.carter at
pcs.k12.va.us.
and we can certainly send that
information out and it's also on our
website we'll put some information out
for that
she's also based at pennsylvania career
and technical center so you can call the
school number and she can provide you
additional information for that as well
i'm specifically interested in maybe a
medical internship especially like the
nursing one you mentioned earlier do you
have any idea on when the date that you
would hear back from pads would be
we are also very interested in getting
some medical services and nursing
related internships it was a big goal
for us this year to get that so i don't
have a date um they're they're working
on it and i'm working with them but i
was in communication this week so i know
they're they're there we just got to get
it confirmed first there's there's some
required documentation from the
department of education and without the
confirmation from the business i can't
complete that documentation so we're
just waiting for that part so what i
would say to you is take a look at
what's available now see what's if
you're interested in anything that's
already currently there and then just
wait just wait just a couple weeks and i
think by the time that date that
deadline is april 5th um you know we'll
have that ready to go the other thing
you can do is send me an email so that
when i
get it finalized i can send you an email
to tell you yes and we can talk about
that offline thank you good question
so what is the start date for the
internships and the end date
great question so i just bumped us back
to this slide so all of you can take a
picture of it this is what has the most
content most information the internship
sites will be from june 13th until
august 5th and that's 32 hours per week
throughout that duration okay and do you
have any law enforcement
like
not yet that's not yet we're working on
it okay thank you
and certainly if anyone knows of any
contacts in these you know interest
areas that our students are asking about
please encourage them to reach out to us
and give us some support or certainly
like ms wilson said earlier looking for
additional business and industry
partners to join us as we want to
continue this and not only during the
summer but this is something that we're
working to build partnerships throughout
the school year to give these students
the opportunity as they're gaining
skills
in their core classes and
elective classes in their base schools
and at a career technical center or stem
academy gov school aet that they can
actually go out and apply these skills
into some of these
areas any other questions
do any of our former interns wish to say
anything about i knew he would
he was just waiting for me to say that
you know i love to speak
so this is one of our past interns from
this past summer yes yes i was one of
the public relations intern my co-worker
over here
sierra she was the other one and cora
down here was community development
i just want to talk about
my experience really dana asked me to
speak and of course i'm going to speak
but
it was it was amazing i don't think
words can really describe
my experience other than it was amazing
it was fulfilling
i enjoyed every single day that i went
into work i will look forward to waking
up every morning and driving down 29 and
get into county administration i didn't
make him say this she did not she did
not no but no
i looked forward every day getting to
county administration 30 minutes before
everybody else except holly stanfield
who got there before me
but
i loved what i did i interviewed county
employees every day i was writing their
biographies i was writing social media
posts i was writing
a history of the county that is actually
going to be published on the wikipedia
page
i
joked around with my co-workers every
day especially the i.t
i think part of his job was to annoy us
half the day
but i still love him
and i just want to talk about caleb
always quotes me on this he's quoted me
twice in the papers but i did learn how
local government works i i took civics
of course and if anyone here is from
tunstall you know mr two art
but
nothing really beats actually working in
the government and able to see how it
works the best way i described it was
when i was on the podcast it looks like
chaos
but it works
you know it looks really complex but
once you've been in it for seven weeks
eight weeks you understand how it all
works together
and you come out knowing
how the local government the one that
impacts you the most
works and it's just really fulfilling
and i also want to talk about uh dana
always
well when when she said this during the
boot camp she said always say yes
to opportunity
and for some reason that stuck with me
and so when i went to community college
down here in danville i said yes to
every opportunity there is and i've
i've really just grown so much i've just
out there doing excellent doing great
and thank you dana for that but i want
to say
take
the first step
this is the first step into your
adulthood unless of course not
graduating yet but this is the first
step that you can take to get experience
and a little money in your pocket and
who knows where to get you
i'm just going to say that
i'm going to be your competition because
i'm going to apply to one of these
internships maybe even two so but i look
forward to having you as my my
co-workers and if you have any questions
i'll be down here with my coworkers and
of course i would love to answer them
thank you
thank you and if what we've said hasn't
impacted or or made you think about
applying for one of these positions i
certainly hope the words that you just
heard from our our students gives you
that motivation because again that's
what it's all about if we can inspire
our students to do something exciting
that's going to benefit them and their
future goals that's what we're here for
any other questions
anything else from the team
okay we want to take this opportunity to
thank everyone for coming out tonight
and those watching online if you have
any questions please feel free to reach
out to us again we're here to assist you
and business and industry partners if
you're out there and those in the crowd
know them please send them our way we
look to expand this and want to grow
this and and be even more
opportunities for students in the future
thank you all
you